Chapter 9. Best Practices
-------------------------

### 9.1 Setting Permissions

When working with an online application it is important to know about
permissions and what the user has access to. When the application uses
functions through the Javascript API, like Data Download or Data Upload,
the user first has to initialize the application with a token. Each
token is connected to a user. It is a best practice to create a new user
for each application and use that token.

Secondly, it is important to note, that if your web application uses a
Direct URL, then the permissions are automatically set to the guest
account. So the repository that holds the workspace has to have guest
permissions.

To give the repository, guest permissions, look on the left hand panel
of the server. Find Security and then look for Users.

![](./Images/1.1.1.Users.png)


*1.1.1. Finding the Users in FME Server*

Once on the users page **click guest.**

Scroll down to the permissions and expand the repositories tab. Then
check the read and run permissions.

![](./Images/1.1.2.Permissions.png)

*1.1.2. Give the guest account permissions to read and run the Tester
Repository*

Now the Direct URL will work.

### 9.2 Using the Namespace Variable For the Data Upload Function

The Data Upload function is displayed in Exercise 4. When a user uses
the web application the permissions go through the account that is
authorized in the beginning of the application. Each user will be
anonymous. So if two users upload the same file, the files will end up
in the same location and be overwritten. To prevent this, each upload is
given a namespace which is a randomly generated key. When using the Data
Upload function it is best to use the getSession function first to
generate a random code first. This is demonstrated in Exercise 4.

### 9.3 Use Direct URLs when needed

Direct URLs are great particularly for Data Streaming. This is because
they will automatically direct the user to the file to be opened on the
computer. There is no need for a callback, callbacks will be explained
in this tutorial. Exercises 2 and 3 use Direct URLs and Exercises 1 and
4, use the JavaScript Library.

### 9.4 Consistent Naming Conventions

Workspaces are like chips. They are addicting so you can never just one.
Therefore, it\'s important to keep them organized on the server. Each
workspace or other item should be named so that a user can quickly tell
what workflow it belongs to.

### 9.5 Create a Project

Projects are a way to bundle multiple resources on the Server together
in one area. This is a great way to keep resources together if you ever
migrate servers.

### 9.6 Hosting Web Applications

There are several ways to complete this training and view your web
application.

**How Safe Deploys Web Applications**

All of Safe Software's Web Demos that are hosted in the following ways.
First, the application folders are posted to GitHub. GitHub has the
advantage of versioning. So once an edit to the code has been made it
will display who made the changes and when they were made.

Safe, then uses Deploy, which is notified when the code on GitHub is
updated. The application is then pushed to the AWS S3 Web Server.

For more detailed information on this, please visit:

https://knowledge.safe.com/articles/677/deploying-a-web-application-on-top-of-fme-cloud-s3.html

**Local Host Server**

This is a good method if you do not have an outward facing server. This
is a simple method to create a page and host is locally. Please note
that if your server is only locally hosted you will not be able to use
the data streaming to Google Maps and ESRI functions.

***Step 1. Install Python***

Simply go to the following website
[https://www.python.org/](https://www.python.org/) and
find the download link to download the newest version of python and
install on your computer.

***Step 2. Locate Terminal (mac) or the Console Window (window)***

Using the commands to navigate through the file folders, locate where
your files are stored.

Here are the useful commands for this:

*These commands are listed on GitHub through the following link:
https://github.com/0nn0/terminal-mac-cheatsheet*

**UPDATE FOR PYTHON 3.6**

<table>

<tr>
<th>Key</th>
<th>Description</th>

</tr>

<tr>
<td>cd[folder]</td>
<td>Change directory e.g. cd Documents</td>

<tr>
<td>cd</td>
<td> Home directory
</td>

<tr>
<td>ls</td>
<td>List Files</td>

</table>



***Step 3. Type in the Python command***

python -m "SimpleHTTPServer" 8080

Please note, this may not work if you paste the command in due to
formatting. If you type the command it will work.

***Step 4. Open up browser and type in:
[http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/)***

***Step 5. Select your file (optional)***

If you did not directly navigate to the file, you may have to select it
using the prompts.

**Google Apps Script**

This is a good method if you have an outward facing server but no pre
existing web directory structure.
