### 1.1 What is a REST API?

A REST API allows a user to interact with the server by creating
requests and receiving responses. REST stands for REpresentational State
Transfer and API stands for Application Programming Interface. A REST
API is a type of API that follows a REST architecture. There are six
architectural constraints that all REST APIs follow:

1.  Client-Server Architecture- this indicates that the client and the
   server are separate from each other and must be able to function independently

2.  Uniform Interface- the structure of the call and response must be
    uniform across all REST APIs

3.  Stateless- This means the server will not store a history of
    previous calls made to the server. Each call will be considered  new.

4.  Cacheable- all responses must be cacheable

5.  Layered System- It is possible to have many servers. The client
    -should not be able to tell if it is connected to the end server or an intermediary server.

6.  Code on demand (optional)- the server may return executable code to
   the client.

These constraints are intended to make the REST API fast and reliable.

The REST API allows a user to interact with the FME Server without the
use of the FME Server Graphical User Interface. This enables the user to
create web applications that allow a client access to the FME Server
without ever having to log in or directly access the server. It can also
be used to automate processes within FME Server. For instance, an FME
user can create a script to run health checks regularly on the Server.

If you are curious about all the possibilities of using the REST API,
please visit,
[https://knowledge.safe.com/page/demos](https://knowledge.safe.com/page/demos).
The FME Knowledge Center has live demonstrations that display the vast
capabilities of using the FME Server and the REST API.

The example below demonstrates how to gather data from the FME Server
using a web application. This application allows a user to request
public transit information within an area specified by the user and you
can find it at the link below
[http://demos.fmeserver.com/datadistribution-webmap/index.html?map=arcgis](http://demos.fmeserver.com/datadistribution-webmap/index.html?map=arcgis).
This web application allows the user to draw a polygon on an area. Then,
the user will set the parameters for the call, this includes which
layers to download and the coordinate system. The user hits request data
and will receive a zip file with the requested information. By the end
of this section, you will understand how to enter this query using a
REST Client and receive a response from the server.

![](./Images/image1.1.1WebApp.png)

*Image 1.1.1 Image of a web mapping application from the FME Server
Playground *

The REST API acts like a middleman directly communicating with the FME
Server and relaying the responses back to the client. You can see the
relationship between the FME Server and the API in the diagram below.

![](./Images/image1.1.2.client.png)

*Image 1.1.2 Diagram of the relationship between the FME Server and
Client *

The REST API reads the call which is composed of the HTTP Verb, URL, and
the body of the call. The FME Server will respond with JSON.
