###  1.3 Authorization and Authentication

Security is always a very important consideration when working with any
online service. The REST API works with security in two ways:
authorization and authentication. Authentication proves that the user is
who they say they are. Authorization verifies that the user is
authorized to make the call.

Most calls to the FME Server require authorization. The REST API uses
tokens to prove the user is permitted to make the call to the server. A
token is a string of encrypted information that is sent between the
client and the server. Token Security will not be as secure as other
methods as the security of the system depends on controlling access to
the tokens.

To generate a token visit
[http://*your.server.host*/fmetoken/](http://your.server.host/fmetoken/).
Once you access your server, you will be asked to verify your username
and your password and be asked to specify when you would like your token
to expire. The maximum amount of time you can issue a token for is two
years.

Each token is linked to a user. You may create a new user for every
application you make. The Server Administrator may set up the user so
they will have limited permissions. This is helpful if they do not want
the application to be able to access the entire server capabilities.
This is set up by creating a new user within the FME Server. After you
have created your web application 'user' you may manage it's token.
Click on the user icon and you can view and manage its token.

![](./Images/image1.3.1.token.png)

*Image 1.3.1 Manage Token*

You may also request and manage tokens through the web application.
Often users will hard code the Guest User into the application. This
prevents the user from having to log in to access the data. The methods
of this will be discussed in a later tutorial on building a web
application.

There are two methods of including a token to the FME Server. You may
include the token in the query parameter and the authorization header. The actual methods of using these different practices will
be discussed later in the tutorial. However, for now, it's important to
know the pros and cons of each method.

**Query Parameter-** You may include the token right in the Request URL
of the call. This is a quick and easy way to use a call that requires a
token.

[http://YOURSERVER/fmerest/v3/info?fmetoken=](http://sienna/fmerest/v3/info?fmetoken=e411779b3050ad777bab6f45f07d2ff5d02fbeb3)YOURTOKEN

However, this is not recommended because the token will be visible in
the URL.

**Authorization Header-** You may also include the token in the Request
Header. This is preferred method because the token will be more hidden
inside the call.

**Troubleshooting Authorization Errors**

If a call is not authorized you will receive an error code back from the
system. You may receive a Forbidden or Unauthorized message. Forbidden
(code 403) means the request was understood but refused. This indicates
you do not have the correct permissions to complete the request.
Unauthorized (code 401) indicates the credentials were missing or
incorrect. This may occur if the request needs a token and it is not
present, or the token is expired.
